# Fish-Genome-Gene-Descriptions
This file will describe 5 genes from the fish genome in greater detail. 
1. ATP-dependent RNA helicase:  Helicases are a class of enzymes that is integral to all living organism as its
main function is to unwrap an organism's genetic material(helix shape of DNA etc.). Helicases are motor proteins that use energy from ATP hydrolysis to unzip two strands(often DNA/RNA). ATP-dependent RNA helicases encodes a DEAD box protein with helicase actovoty which is known to unwind nucleic acids. The ATP-dependent RNA helicase belongs to a set of processes involving the alteration of the RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. They are also thought to be involved in ambryogenesis, spermogenisis and cell growth/division.
2. Isoaspartyl peptidase: Isoaspartyl peptidase is an enzyme that is generally involved in hydralase activity. It also has both L-asparaginase and beta-aspartyl peptidase activity, L-asparaginase being a non essential amino acid that is used to fight cancer. Moreover, isoaspartyl peptidase may be involved in the production of L-aspartate, which can act as an excitatory neurotransmitter in some brain regions. Aspartate is also a dietary supplement sometimes given for increasing absorption of minerals, enhancing athletic performance and reducing brain damge. 
3. Phosphoglycerate mutase: Phosphoglycerate mutase(PGM) is an enzyme used to catalyze the 8th step of glycolosis PGM is an isomerase enzyme, effectively transferring a phosphate group (PO32−) from the C-3 carbon of 3-phosphoglycerate to the C-2 carbon forming 2-phosphoglycerate. There are a total of three reactions PGM can catalyze: a mutase reaction resulting in the conversion of 3PG to 2PG and vice versa,a phosphatase reaction creating phosphoglycerate from 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate, and a synthase reaction producing 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate from 1,3-bisphosphoglycerate similar to the enzyme bisphosphoglycerate mutase.
4. Adenylate kinase: Adenylate kinase is a phosphotransferase enzyme, meaning it it facilitates the adding of a phosphate group to a molecule. Adenylate kinase catalyzes the introconversion of adenine molecules and plays a significant role in cellular energy homeostasis.ADK uses AMP metabolic signals produced or downregulated during exercise, stress response, food consumption, hormone changes. ADK relays deliver AMP signals to metabolic sensors. It facilitates decoding of cellular information by catalyzing nucleotide exchange in the intimate “sensing zone” of metabolic sensors.Through a chain of sequential reactions, ADK facilitates transfer and utilization of γ- and β-phosphoryls in the ATP molecule.
5. 
